# Final_Project_Self_Assessment

## Self Assesment

The roles I was able to play during this project were setting up and maintaining the repository, and compiling and leading the slideshow presentation. I was able to gather visuals from the updates to the repository and communicated weekly with each team member via slack and class hours what they wanted to be included during their segment of the presentation. I found templates, made custom emotes, and adapted visuals, to ensure when presenting, all data was astheticly cohesive. 
I was able to contribute to team discussions by being present each week and I did my best to brainstorm and offer ideas. I found that I tend to contribute broad ideas and concepts. Going forward I will focus on honing down on specifics when and idea is grasped onto. I also found my team mates to be more knowlegable and comfortable with navagating the project. Going forward I will work on my confidence in finding and learning new material. I am very new to coding and during this project I felt that I needed more experience to be able to contribute more effectivly. I look forward to exploring this field further to grow into a more competant coder, and analyzer.

## Team Assesment

We communicated through slack and class hours and offered other ways to stay in touch such as zoom meetings outside of class and text, but stayed within the former options. Our team excelled at consistently working on our individual roles. We truested each other to complete what was expected of our roles for the assignment, and overcame personal and technical issues during collaboration. There were obsicalls when it came to gathering and processing data, as well as ensuring our project was unique and clean. As teammates we stayed flexible and welcomed feedback and suggestions. Feedback that was given was friendly, profesional, and warmly accepted. We were able to pivot and adapt to the project as it evolved.
When someone was unable to make a scheduled meeting we would reach out on slack, briefly, to recalibrate. There were challenges in consistant communications due to medical reasons, techical and connectivity issues, availability issues, and seemingly personal preferences to work by ourselves on our deliverables. However, each role was fulfilled and each deliverable was met, thanks to each individuals work ethic and our team lead checking in each week individually asking for updates on deliverables.
Going forward, I will suggest concrete communication expectations with scheduled check ins, more detailed task lists, and back up plans for missed meetings/deliverables. 
  
## Project Summary
The project in question was to use quantifiable features of a song and attempt classify the song into genre or moods. We used a 1.2+M song list from Kaggle and looked for feaures (danceability, varience, tempo, loudness, energy, accousticness) to look at. We used an unsupervies machine learnig model to group the date into 6 clusters using the features. We determined that mood is too subjective to catagorize each of the clusters into the mood. Although subjective, when providing a place to look up the clusters from the database, we gave arbitary labels to the clusters (happy, calm, angry, sad, laid-back, energetic) for a more user friendly experience.
